Hi everyone, we have been talking about what AI can do for us recently, right?
But today we want to change the angle to talk about how we should use it.
Well, this is a very important one, but to be honest, the concept that is often overlooked by everyone is called cautiousness.
This can be said to be the most important part of taking responsibility for using AI.
You can think that using AI is like driving.
Our goal should not only be to drive from point A to point B at the fastest speed, right?
When driving, we will also consider safety, follow traffic rules, and also pay attention to whether our driving method will affect other people on the road at any time.
This is the core spirit of AI cautiousness.
It does not look at how powerful AI is, but at how we use AI.
What we are looking for is a way to be more moral, safer, and make every interaction with AI very rigorous, transparent, and responsible.
So you see, a key change of mind is here.
Most people think of the left side of the road when using AI.
How to get things done the most efficiently and quickly.
But the concept of cautiousness is to remind us that the right side of the road, that is, how you reach your goal, is actually as important as it is, or even more important.
Okay, so next we're going to explore this concept like this.
First, let's see what elements are missing in AI.
Then we will break the cautiousness into three pillars, which are creation, transparency, and deployment.
Finally, let's talk about what roles each of us can play inside.
Okay, the first part, the elements that AI lacks.
Yes, we all know that AI is very good at completing tasks, but is that enough?
The core of cautiousness is to stop and think about it when we use AI.
In addition to doing things, what I am doing now may also have a wider impact.
This brings up a fundamental question that we all have to ask ourselves.
Who could these things I created with AI possibly affect?
You see, this question is no longer just a technical matter.
It directly relates to the social responsibility of each of us.
So how do we have a system to implement it?
It's not that hard.
We can break it into three very clear steps, or three pillars.
The first step is creation.
The second step is transparency.
The last step is deployment.
Let's look at them one by one.
Okay, the first pillar is creation.
Let's go back to the example of driving.
It's a bit like you really have to carefully choose which car to drive before you go out.
Then which lane do I want to take?
So at this stage of creation, we have to ask ourselves the key question.
That is, which AI should I use?
And how should I use it?
It's really not just about opening a web page,
but we need to be very conscious, even with some criticism, to make a choice.
Because as you know, different tools may lead to completely different results.
So before and after using AI, we should ask ourselves some key questions.
For example, how is this system trained?
What data does it use?
How do I protect myself and other people's privacy?
More importantly, does my interaction with it meet my own values?
Let me give you a super practical example.
Before you paste the company's sensitive internal data directly to the AI assistant,
did you stop and think about whether this service's data protection policy is okay?
Is your company really allowing you to do that?
Okay, next is the second spider, transparent.
Let's go back to the metaphor of driving.
It's kind of like you telling the passenger in the car,
Hey, I'm using GPS right now.
Or we're going to take this particular route later.
So when it comes to transparency, the core problem is actually very simple.
That is, in the data that you have,
who needs to know that AI is also involved?
This directly relates to whether we have entered the responsibility of the notice.
Keeping transparent is actually more than just following any rules.
More importantly, this is a way to maintain trust and respect in the relationship between people.
When we openly admit that AI plays a role,
we can make everyone more honest and honest.
For example, you used AI to help write a team proposal.
Then you take the initiative to tell your colleagues,
Hey, I used AI to assist in some part of this report.
This way, your cooperation can be established on the basis of honesty.
Everyone in the team is also working together under the same situation of communication, right?
Next, let's take a look at the last spider, transparent.
Just like driving is going to take all the responsibility for its driving behavior,
we as AI users must also take all the responsibility for the final result of AI production.
When you share the content of AI,
think about who should be responsible for its accuracy and whether it is appropriate.
The answer is actually the team.
So at this stage of deployment,
your responsibility includes that you have to take the final responsibility for the result.
You have to go and check the facts and sources in person.
You have to check if there are any potential prejudices in the content.
You also have to ensure the accuracy of the information and the right to use it.
In the end, it is the content shared for you
that is covered by AI.
Imagine a reporter using AI to help write a script.
Before the article is published,
he or she still has to go and check every fact and source in person
to make sure that the script meets the professional standards of the news.
This standard is exactly the same as writing a script from the beginning to the end.
There is no space for any discount.
Finally, let's talk about the roles of each of us.
What should we do to become a reliable driver
and then create a healthier AI ecosystem together?
So let's review it again.
Please remember these three pillars.
When you create, you have to be careful.
When you communicate, you have to be careful.
I think we all hope that the future of AI is fair, safe, and beneficial to society.
And to achieve this goal,
the key is actually in the hands of each of us.
Each of our actions, each of our choices,
are creating the future appearance of AI together.
So finally, I would like to leave a word to everyone.
The future appearance of AI is in the hands of each of us.
The future appearance of AI is in the hands of us.
Finally, I would like to leave a word to everyone.
The future appearance of AI is your responsibility.
So how do you choose to practice the sacred duty?